ADR 35: Rosetta API Support (#7492)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/architecture/adr-030-rosetta-api-support.md

> # ADR 033: Rosetta API support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# ADR 035: Rosetta API support
```

```
type NetworkProperties struct {
	// Mandatory properties
	Blockchain          string
	Network             string
	AddrPrefix          string
	SupportedOperations []string
}
```

Rosetta API services use Blockchain and Network as identifiers, e.g. the developers of gaia, the application that powers the Cosmos Hub, may want to set those to Cosmos Hub and cosmos-hub-3 respectively.

`AddrPrefix` contains the network-specific address prefix. Cosmos SDK base implementations will default to `cosmos`, client applications are instructed that this should be changed according to their network configuration.

`SupportedOperations` contains the transaction types that are supported by the library. At the present time, only `Transfer` is supported.

`Network` holds an `Adapter` reference too. Adapter implementations may vary across different Cosmos SDK release series:

```
type Adapter interface {
	DataAPI
	ConstructionAPI
}

type DataAPI interface {
	server.NetworkAPIServicer
	server.AccountAPIServicer
	server.MempoolAPIServicer
	server.BlockAPIServicer
	server.ConstructionAPIServicer
}

type ConstructionAPI interface {
	server.ConstructionAPIServicer
}

````

### Cosmos SDK Integration

> The best way to do it would be that every Cosmos SDK version holds the implementation of the Network struct, this can be an example located in the Cosmos SDK Launchpad version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cosmos SDK provides a base `Network` struct so that it could serve as code example for client application developers and testing tool to be used in conjuction with `simd`.
```

```

> // NewLaunchpadNetwork returns a configured network to work in a Launchpad version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// NewLaunchpadNetwork returns a configured application built with Cosmos SDK 0.39 Launchpad.
```

> func NewLaunchpadNetwork(options Options) service.Network {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
func NewNetwork(options Options) service.Network {
```

	cosmosClient := cosmos.NewClient(fmt.Sprintf("http://%s", options.CosmosEndpoint))
	tendermintClient := tendermint.NewClient(fmt.Sprintf("http://%s", options.TendermintEndpoint))

	return service.Network{
		Properties: rosetta.NetworkProperties{
			Blockchain:          options.Blockchain,
			Network:             options.Network,
			SupportedOperations: []string{OperationTransfer},
		},
		Adapter: newAdapter(
			cosmosClient,
			tendermintClient,
			properties{
				Blockchain:  options.Blockchain,
				Network:     options.Network,
				AddrPrefix:  options.AddrPrefix,
				OfflineMode: options.OfflineMode,
			},
		),
	}
}
```

> As we see we hold not only the instantiation of a Launchpad specific network but the adapter implementation too. As the way to talk to different rpc endpoint change between different versions (Launchpad, Stargate, etc), makes sense to keep it in their respective branches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> In this way we could have two options (yet to decide) that we can expose rosetta in the cosmos SDK.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> #### Embedding it in the Start command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### In-process execution.
```

> This will look more like the approach the API in cosmos works: [link](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/ca7b31dd5d23b10a919de1a60bbac90e89c5bf78/server/start.go#L248).

Reviewer 2: `Rosetta API` service could run within the same execution process of the application; new configuration option and command line flag would be provided:

> 
> So we can add something like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
	if config.Rosetta.Enable {
     ....
            get contecxt, flags, etc
        	...
            
            h, err := service.New(
                service.Options{Port: uint32(*flagPort)},

>                 launchpad.NewLaunchpadNetwork(launchpad.Options{

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                NewNetwork(Options{
```

By using a common interface that standardizes the process of how a user interacts with a blockchain, both the work of exchanges to integrate with new blockchains and also of the developers to build cross-blockchain applications such as block explorers, wallets and dApps is considerably reduced.

We think that providing Rosetta support to the Cosmos SDK will add value to all the developers and Cosmos SDK based chains in the ecosystem.

## Decision

The service is structured in a way that:

1. It becomes easy to inject different implementations for different types of SDK. For this abstraction we have used the term Adapter.
2. Due to the nature of versioning that has been done with Cosmos SDK so far it becomes very difficult to have different SDK versions included in the same repo, for that we created a generic shared code that includes the Service and the Adapter interface.
3. It is easy to inject and instantiate wherever is needed in the different applications.

## Architecture

### Service

> The Service is just an struct that is started and listens to the port specified in the options. This is commonly used for all the SDK versions supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Service is just a simple `struct` that is started and listens to the port specified in the options. This is commonly used for all the SDK versions supported.
```

> To construct one we can call the constructor:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The constructor follows:
```

`func New(options Options, network Network) (*Service, error)`

> It accepts an options struct that only holds the port to listen to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It accepts an `Options` `struct` that holds service configuration values, such as the port the service would be listening to:
```

```
type Options struct {
	Port uint32
}
```

> And a Network struct. This struct is the one that is specific to every SDK version, or even a network specific that the generic SDK does not cover all their needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Network` type holds network-specific properties (i.e. configuration values) and adapters. Ready-to-use Cosmos SDK release series-specific base `Network` concrete types will be made available. Applications can embed such types in their own custom types.
```

```
type Network struct {
	Properties rosetta.NetworkProperties
	Adapter    rosetta.Adapter
}
````

> The properties struct is needed in order to run the Service, these are options that are mandatory and are related to Rosetta specific properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `NetworkProperties` `struct` comprises basic values that are required by a Rosetta API `Service` to run:
```

```
type NetworkProperties struct {
	// Mandatory properties
	Blockchain          string
	Network             string
	AddrPrefix          string
	SupportedOperations []string
}
```

> The `Blockchain` and `Network` are the ones that Rosetta uses to label the networks that the API supports, for example, if we were implementing a Bitcoin API Rosetta blockchain would be "Bitcoin" and network could be "mainnet", etc.

Reviewer 2: Rosetta API services use `Blockchain` and `Network` as identifiers, e.g. the developers of `gaia`, the application that powers the Cosmos Hub, may want to set those to `Cosmos Hub` and `cosmos-hub-3` respectively.

> The `AddrPrefix` is specific to the nature of cosmos type addresses. Because a network can have a different type of address we need to provide it, for example for IOV it would be "star" and for cosmos hub would be "cosmos".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`AddrPrefix` contains the network-specific address prefix. Cosmos SDK base implementations will default to `cosmos`, client applications are instructed that this should be changed according to their network configuration.
```

> And the `SupportedOperations` is related to Rosetta, these are the operations the API supports. An operation can be a `Transfer`, `Delegation`, etc. For now we only support one type of operation, `Transfer`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`SupportedOperations` contains the transaction types that are supported by the library. At the present time, only `Transfer` is supported.
```

`Network` holds an `Adapter` reference too. Adapter implementations may vary across different Cosmos SDK release series:

> And adapter must satisfy the interface:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The other important thing that the Network holds is the Adapter interface. This interface is the specific implementation for every cosmos version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Network` holds an `Adapter` reference too. Adapter implementations may vary across different Cosmos SDK release series.
```

> And adapter must satisfy the interface:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
type Adapter interface {
	DataAPI
	ConstructionAPI
}

type DataAPI interface {
	server.NetworkAPIServicer
	server.AccountAPIServicer
	server.MempoolAPIServicer
	server.BlockAPIServicer
	server.ConstructionAPIServicer
}

type ConstructionAPI interface {
	server.ConstructionAPIServicer
}

````

> ### How to use it in the Cosmos SDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Cosmos SDK Integration
```
